---
layout: post
title: "20.00: January 2021 Devblog"
date: 2021-01-31 12:30:00 +0100
description: |
    "Beep beep boop"
image: /assets/img/art/ProbablyNot/ProbablyNot_PDA.png
image_credit: Image credit - Probably Not
post_credit: Written by – Probably Not / CosmicCoincidence
monthly_release: 0.3.8
---

Spatial awarness is a necessary skill to do your job.

# January Recap

Its a new year, and we have a new wave of contributions. Strap in yall.

## A New Lobby and a Main Menu

Our biggest and one of the most important features yet has got to be our fancy new lobby system. **John** was hard at work this month seperating the main menu, lobby, and the game into their own things. The result is quite nice and brings us closer for this project to *finally* have *a* gameplay loop. Connecting players will now be first greeted with a lobby for them to hang out in and customize their character(When its implemented) until theyre ready to join. The game host also now has access to an admin menu to control various parameters for the game. Ranging from changing the map, gamemode, and setting a timer until the round starts.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/JohnLobby.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## A Fancy New Editor With Fancy New Features

While the new lobby is a rather important step for our game, you cant have a game without a way to make levels. Yes, we already had a basic level editor, but **BroodjeKipcorn** significantly revamped our existing editor with a host of new features. Not only can you now use layers, but you can search for the item you need when building, all while even being case-insensitive. 

<div>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/EditorShowcase.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}
  <h5><i>An earlier version of the the level editor in action</i></h5>
</div>
<div>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/EditorSearch.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}
  <h5><i>Searching for things in the editor, as well as changing their direction</i></h5>
</div>
<div>
  {% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/EditorLayers.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}
  <h5><i>Using layers to hide stuff</i></h5>
</div>

##A New and Improved Container System

**Alainx** has done a good job overhauling our existing system for containers. This new system uses a Resident Evil-like modular approach, allowing things like child objects or multiple different containers per object. Its server authored, protecting against cheating, and you can use this new system on clothes too.
{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/InventoryShowcase.gif template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Details

**BroodjeKipcorn**

- Significantly improved atmos performance

## Fixes

**Alainx**

- Fixed dragged item blocking itself
- Fixed dropped items clipping into the ground
- Fixed broken suit storage

**BroodjeKipcorn**

- Fixed bug where furniture couldn't be placed
- Fixed issue where ghost tiles were not removed
- Fixed low wall mount bug and ghost tile spawn bug
- Fixed a bug in which rotations were reset when placing another layer
- Fixed selection grid bug and remove faulty vent asset

## Icon

**Konstatin** made a nice new icon for the station AI. You probably recognize her.

{% responsive_image path: assets/img/posts/21.01.01/shodanish_face_new.png template: _includes/srcset.html %}

## Updates

To kick off this new year, we are finally launching a means to support the development of this game via Patreon, SubscribeStar, and even a crypto wallet. The funds gathered from these will primarily be used for paying code bounties which we will also be launching once we have the funds to pay them out. They will secondarily be used for covering any costs incurred from this game, like paying for servers, once this game is in a more playable state. One *very* important thing we want to ensure is that we are **completely** transparent about how we use your donations for this project. You can see this in the #money-log channel on our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"}.

## Conclusion

Its been a rough year. But 2021 is already showing some promise, especially for SS3D. Stay safe out there folks.

Also join our [Discord]({{ site.discord_url }}){:target="_blank"} por favor.